content/english/java/highlighting/groupdocs-search-java-highlight-terms-documents/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Search and Highlight Text with GroupDocs.Search for Java"
description: "Learn how to search and highlight text in documents using GroupDocs.Search for Java. Explore techniques for full‑document and fragment highlighting."
date: "2025-12-26"
weight: 1
url: "/java/highlighting/groupdocs-search-java-highlight-terms-documents/"
keywords:
- GroupDocs.Search for Java
- highlight search terms in documents
- document highlighting
type: docs
---

# Search and Highlight Text in Documents Using GroupDocs.Search for Java

In today's digital age, **search and highlight text** across massive document collections is a common requirement. Whether you're building a legal review tool, an academic research portal, or a customer‑support dashboard, being able to instantly locate and emphasize key terms dramatically improves usability. In this comprehensive guide, you'll discover how to implement **search and highlight text** with GroupDocs.Search for Java—covering both full‑document highlighting and fragment‑level highlighting for focused context.

## Quick Answers
- **What does “search and highlight text” mean?** It refers to locating query terms in a document and visually emphasizing them (e.g., with background color).  
- **Which library provides this capability?** GroupDocs.Search for Java.  
- **Do I need a license?** A free trial works for evaluation; a full license is required for production.  
- **Can I customize highlight colors?** Yes—any RGB color can be set via `HighlightOptions`.  
- **Is fragment highlighting supported?** Absolutely; you can define terms before/after the match to create concise snippets.

## What Is Search and Highlight Text?
Search and highlight text is the process of scanning a document index for a given query, retrieving matching documents, and then marking each occurrence of the query term within the document output (HTML, PDF, etc.). This visual cue helps end‑users spot relevant information instantly.

## Why Use GroupDocs.Search for Java?
- **High‑performance indexing** with configurable compression.  
- **Rich highlighting API** that works on whole documents and on custom fragments.  
- **Cross‑format support** (DOCX, PDF, PPTX, TXT, and more).  
- **Easy Maven integration** and clear Java‑centric API.

## Prerequisites
- Java Development Kit (JDK) 8 or newer.  
- Maven for dependency management.  
- An IDE such as IntelliJ IDEA or Eclipse.  
- Basic familiarity with Java syntax.

## Setting Up GroupDocs.Search for Java

Add the GroupDocs repository and dependency to your `pom.xml`:

```xml
<repositories>
   <repository>
      <id>repository.groupdocs.com</id>
      <name>GroupDocs Repository</name>
      <url>https://releases.groupdocs.com/search/java/</url>
   </repository>
</repositories>

<dependencies>
   <dependency>
      <groupId>com.groupdocs</groupId>
      <artifactId>groupdocs-search</artifactId>
      <version>25.4</version>
   </dependency>
</dependencies>
```

You can also download the latest JAR directly from the official site: [GroupDocs.Search for Java releases](https://releases.groupdocs.com/search/java/).

### License Acquisition
Start with a free trial or obtain a temporary license for evaluation. For production deployments, purchase a full license to unlock all features.

## Implementation Guide

The implementation is split into two practical sections: **highlighting in entire documents** and **highlighting in fragments**. Both sections include the essential steps for **how to highlight Java** documents using GroupDocs.Search.

### Configuring Index Settings
Before indexing, configure the storage to use high compression—this reduces disk usage while preserving search speed.

```java
IndexSettings settings = new IndexSettings();
settings.setTextStorageSettings(new TextStorageSettings(Compression.High));
```

### Highlighting in Entire Documents

#### Step 1: Create and Populate the Index
Create an index folder and add all source files you want to search.

```java
String indexFolder = "/path/to/your/document/directory/HighlightingInEntireDocument";
Index index = new Index(indexFolder, settings);
index.add("/path/to/your/documents");
```

#### Step 2: Perform Search and Apply Highlighting
Search for the term (e.g., `ipsum`) and generate an HTML file with highlighted matches.

```java
SearchResult result = index.search("ipsum");

if (result.getDocumentCount() > 0) {
    FoundDocument document = result.getFoundDocument(0);
    OutputAdapter outputAdapter = new FileOutputAdapter(OutputFormat.Html, "/path/to/your/output/directory/Highlighted.html");
    
    Highlighter highlighter = new DocumentHighlighter(outputAdapter);
    HighlightOptions options = new HighlightOptions();
    options.setHighlightColor(new Color(150, 255, 150)); // Custom green shade
    options.setUseInlineStyles(false); // Prefer CSS for styling
    
    index.highlight(document, highlighter, options);
}
```

**Key options explained**
- **Compression** – high compression saves storage.  
- **HighlightColor** – set any RGB value to match your UI palette.  
- **UseInlineStyles** – `false` generates clean HTML that can be styled globally with CSS.

### Highlighting in Fragments

#### Step 1: Index and Search (same as above)
```java
String indexFolder = "/path/to/your/document/directory/HighlightingInFragments";
Index index = new Index(indexFolder, settings);
index.add("/path/to/your/documents");

SearchResult result = index.search("ipsum");
```

#### Step 2: Define Fragment Context and Highlight
Specify how many terms before and after the match should appear in each fragment.

```java
HighlightOptions options = new HighlightOptions();
options.setTermsBefore(5); // Include 5 terms before the match
options.setTermsAfter(5);   // Include 5 terms after the match
options.setHighlightColor(new Color(127, 200, 255)); // Custom blue shade
options.setUseInlineStyles(true); // Use inline styles for emphasis

FoundDocument document = result.getFoundDocument(0);
FragmentHighlighter highlighter = new FragmentHighlighter(OutputFormat.Html);

index.highlight(document, highlighter, options);
```

#### Step 3: Retrieve and Write Highlighted Fragments
Collect the generated fragments and write them to an HTML file.

```java
StringBuilder stringBuilder = new StringBuilder();
FragmentContainer[] fragmentContainers = highlighter.getResult();

for (FragmentContainer container : fragmentContainers) {
    String[] fragments = container.getFragments();
    
    if (fragments.length > 0) {
        stringBuilder.append("\n<br>").append(container.getFieldName()).append("<br>\n");
        
        for (String fragment : fragments) {
            stringBuilder.append(fragment).append("\n");
        }
    }
}

try {
    Files.write(Paths.get("/path/to/your/output/directory/Fragments.html"), stringBuilder.toString().getBytes());
} catch (IOException ex) {
    // Handle exceptions
}
```

## Practical Applications
1. **Legal Document Review** – instantly highlight statutes, clauses, or case references.  
2. **Academic Research** – surface key terminology across dozens of PDFs and Word files.  
3. **Customer Support** – pinpoint order numbers or error codes within ticket histories.

## Performance Considerations
- **Index Size** – high compression (`Compression.High`) reduces disk footprint.  
- **Fragment Context** – larger `termsBefore/After` values increase accuracy but may affect speed.  
- **Memory Management** – monitor JVM heap when indexing large corpora; consider incremental indexing for very large sets.

## Common Issues and Solutions
- **Indexing Errors** – verify file paths and ensure the application has read/write permissions.  
- **No Highlights Appear** – confirm that `UseInlineStyles` matches your output format (HTML vs. PDF).  
- **Color Not Applied** – make sure the RGB values are within 0‑255 range and that the HTML viewer supports the style.

## Frequently Asked Questions

**Q: What are the benefits of using GroupDocs.Search for Java?**  
A: It offers fast, scalable indexing, customizable highlighting, and support for many document formats.

**Q: How can I integrate GroupDocs.Search with a REST API?**  
A: Expose the search and highlight methods via Spring Boot controllers, returning HTML or JSON payloads.

**Q: Does the library handle password‑protected files?**  
A: Yes—provide the password when adding the document to the index.

**Q: Can I customize the highlight markup beyond color?**  
A: Absolutely; you can inject CSS classes via `HighlightOptions` or modify the HTML after generation.

**Q: What version was tested for this guide?**  
A: The code was validated against GroupDocs.Search 25.4.

---

**Last Updated:** 2025-12-26  
**Tested With:** GroupDocs.Search 25.4  
**Author:** GroupDocs

Commit message:

Optimize page: content/english/java/highlighting/groupdocs-search-java-highlight-terms-documents/_index.md - - Updated title and meta description to include primary keyword “highlight text java”. - Revised introduction to place primary keyword in the first sentence and added context. - Added a new H2 “How to Highlight Text Java in Documents” containing the primary keyword. - Integrated all secondary keywords naturally throughout the tutorial. - Updated the “Last Updated” date to 2026-02-27 and kept author information. - Enhanced FAQs with additional relevant questions and answers.

content/english/java/highlighting/groupdocs-search-java-highlight-terms-documents/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Highlight Text Java with GroupDocs.Search"
description: "Learn how to highlight text java using GroupDocs.Search for Java, covering search documents java, index documents java, and fragment highlighting."
date: "2026-02-27"
weight: 1
url: "/java/highlighting/groupdocs-search-java-highlight-terms-documents/"
keywords:
- GroupDocs.Search for Java
- highlight search terms in documents
- document highlighting
type: docs
---

# Highlight Text Java with GroupDocs.Search

In today’s fast‑paced digital environment, being able to **highlight text java** across large collections of files is a must‑have feature. Whether you’re building a legal‑review platform, an academic research engine, or a customer‑support console, instantly spotting the terms users are looking for makes the experience far more efficient. This tutorial walks you through using **GroupDocs.Search for Java** to **search documents java**, **index documents java**, and apply rich highlighting—both for whole documents and for focused fragments.

## Quick Answers
- **What does “search and highlight text” mean?** It refers to locating query terms in a document and visually emphasizing them (e.g., with background color).  
- **Which library provides this capability?** GroupDocs.Search for Java.  
- **Do I need a license?** A free trial works for evaluation; a full license is required for production.  
- **Can I customize highlight colors?** Yes—any RGB color can be set via `HighlightOptions`.  
- **Is fragment highlighting supported?** Absolutely; you can define terms before/after the match to create concise snippets.

## How to Highlight Text Java in Documents
Highlighting text Java involves three core steps:

1. **Index the source files** so they can be searched quickly.  
2. **Run a query** against the index to find matching documents.  
3. **Render the results with visual cues** using the highlighter API.

Below we explore each step in detail, first for whole‑document output and then for fragment‑level snippets.

## What Is Search and Highlight Text?
Search and highlight text is the process of scanning a document index for a given query, retrieving matching documents, and then marking each occurrence of the query term within the document output (HTML, PDF, etc.). This visual cue helps end‑users spot relevant information instantly.

## Why Use GroupDocs.Search for Java?
- **High‑performance indexing** with configurable compression (`index documents java`).  
- **Rich highlighting API** that works on whole documents and on custom fragments (`highlight search terms java`).  
- **Cross‑format support** (DOCX, PDF, PPTX, TXT, and more).  
- **Simple Maven integration** and a clean Java‑centric design.

## Prerequisites
- Java Development Kit (JDK) 8 or newer.  
- Maven for dependency management.  
- An IDE such as IntelliJ IDEA or Eclipse.  
- Basic familiarity with Java syntax.

## Setting Up GroupDocs.Search for Java

Add the GroupDocs repository and dependency to your `pom.xml`:

```xml
<repositories>
   <repository>
      <id>repository.groupdocs.com</id>
      <name>GroupDocs Repository</name>
      <url>https://releases.groupdocs.com/search/java/</url>
   </repository>
</repositories>

<dependencies>
   <dependency>
      <groupId>com.groupdocs</groupId>
      <artifactId>groupdocs-search</artifactId>
      <version>25.4</version>
   </dependency>
</dependencies>
```

You can also download the latest JAR directly from the official site: [GroupDocs.Search for Java releases](https://releases.groupdocs.com/search/java/).

### License Acquisition
Start with a free trial or obtain a temporary license for evaluation. For production deployments, purchase a full license to unlock all features.

## Implementation Guide

The implementation is split into two practical sections: **highlighting in entire documents** and **highlighting in fragments**. Both sections include the essential steps for **how to highlight Java** documents using GroupDocs.Search.

### Configuring Index Settings
Before indexing, configure the storage to use high compression—this reduces disk usage while preserving search speed.

```java
IndexSettings settings = new IndexSettings();
settings.setTextStorageSettings(new TextStorageSettings(Compression.High));
```

### Highlighting in Entire Documents

#### Step 1: Create and Populate the Index
Create an index folder and add all source files you want to search.

```java
String indexFolder = "/path/to/your/document/directory/HighlightingInEntireDocument";
Index index = new Index(indexFolder, settings);
index.add("/path/to/your/documents");
```

#### Step 2: Perform Search and Apply Highlighting
Search for the term (e.g., `ipsum`) and generate an HTML file with highlighted matches.

```java
SearchResult result = index.search("ipsum");

if (result.getDocumentCount() > 0) {
    FoundDocument document = result.getFoundDocument(0);
    OutputAdapter outputAdapter = new FileOutputAdapter(OutputFormat.Html, "/path/to/your/output/directory/Highlighted.html");
    
    Highlighter highlighter = new DocumentHighlighter(outputAdapter);
    HighlightOptions options = new HighlightOptions();
    options.setHighlightColor(new Color(150, 255, 150)); // Custom green shade
    options.setUseInlineStyles(false); // Prefer CSS for styling
    
    index.highlight(document, highlighter, options);
}
```

**Key options explained**  
- **Compression** – high compression saves storage.  
- **HighlightColor** – set any RGB value to match your UI palette.  
- **UseInlineStyles** – `false` generates clean HTML that can be styled globally with CSS.  

### Highlighting in Fragments

#### Step 1: Index and Search (same as above)
```java
String indexFolder = "/path/to/your/document/directory/HighlightingInFragments";
Index index = new Index(indexFolder, settings);
index.add("/path/to/your/documents");

SearchResult result = index.search("ipsum");
```

#### Step 2: Define Fragment Context and Highlight
Specify how many terms before and after the match should appear in each fragment.

```java
HighlightOptions options = new HighlightOptions();
options.setTermsBefore(5); // Include 5 terms before the match
options.setTermsAfter(5);   // Include 5 terms after the match
options.setHighlightColor(new Color(127, 200, 255)); // Custom blue shade
options.setUseInlineStyles(true); // Use inline styles for emphasis

FoundDocument document = result.getFoundDocument(0);
FragmentHighlighter highlighter = new FragmentHighlighter(OutputFormat.Html);

index.highlight(document, highlighter, options);
```

#### Step 3: Retrieve and Write Highlighted Fragments
Collect the generated fragments and write them to an HTML file.

```java
StringBuilder stringBuilder = new StringBuilder();
FragmentContainer[] fragmentContainers = highlighter.getResult();

for (FragmentContainer container : fragmentContainers) {
    String[] fragments = container.getFragments();
    
    if (fragments.length > 0) {
        stringBuilder.append("\n<br>").append(container.getFieldName()).append("<br>\n");
        
        for (String fragment : fragments) {
            stringBuilder.append(fragment).append("\n");
        }
    }
}

try {
    Files.write(Paths.get("/path/to/your/output/directory/Fragments.html"), stringBuilder.toString().getBytes());
} catch (IOException ex) {
    // Handle exceptions
}
```

## Practical Applications
1. **Legal Document Review** – instantly highlight statutes, clauses, or case references.  
2. **Academic Research** – surface key terminology across dozens of PDFs and Word files.  
3. **Customer Support** – pinpoint order numbers or error codes within ticket histories.

## Performance Considerations
- **Index Size** – high compression (`Compression.High`) reduces disk footprint.  
- **Fragment Context** – larger `termsBefore/After` values increase accuracy but may affect speed.  
- **Memory Management** – monitor JVM heap when indexing large corpora; consider incremental indexing for very large sets.

## Common Issues and Solutions
- **Indexing Errors** – verify file paths and ensure the application has read/write permissions.  
- **No Highlights Appear** – confirm that `UseInlineStyles` matches your output format (HTML vs. PDF).  
- **Color Not Applied** – make sure the RGB values are within 0‑255 range and that the HTML viewer supports the style.

## Frequently Asked Questions

**Q: What are the benefits of using GroupDocs.Search for Java?**  
A: It offers fast, scalable indexing, customizable highlighting, and support for many document formats.

**Q: How can I integrate GroupDocs.Search with a REST API?**  
A: Expose the search and highlight methods via Spring Boot controllers, returning HTML or JSON payloads.

**Q: Does the library handle password‑protected files?**  
A: Yes—provide the password when adding the document to the index.

**Q: Can I customize the highlight markup beyond color?**  
A: Absolutely; you can inject CSS classes via `HighlightOptions` or modify the HTML after generation.

**Q: What version was tested for this guide?**  
A: The code was validated against GroupDocs.Search 25.4.

**Q: How do I set highlight options java to use a CSS class instead of inline styles?**  
A: Set `options.setUseInlineStyles(false)` and add a CSS rule for the class you assign via `options.setCssClass("myHighlight")`.

**Q: Is there a way to highlight terms pdf java directly when the source is a PDF?**  
A: Yes—GroupDocs.Search works with PDF input, and the highlighter will output HTML that you can embed in a PDF viewer or convert back to PDF using GroupDocs.Conversion.

---

**Last Updated:** 2026-02-27  
**Tested With:** GroupDocs.Search 25.4  
**Author:** GroupDocs
