content/english/java/advanced-features/groupdocs-search-java-implementation-guide/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Create Document Index with GroupDocs.Search for Java"
description: "Learn how to create document index using GroupDocs.Search for Java, covering text extraction, serialization, and full‑text search Java capabilities."
date: "2025-12-18"
weight: 1
url: "/java/advanced-features/groupdocs-search-java-implementation-guide/"
keywords:
- GroupDocs.Search for Java
- document indexing in Java
- text extraction with GroupDocs
type: docs
---

# Create Document Index with GroupDocs.Search for Java: A Complete Guide

In today's digital age, being able to **create document index** quickly and search through it efficiently is a game‑changer for any organization. Whether you’re building a document management system or a custom search engine, GroupDocs.Search for Java gives you the tools to extract text, serialize data, and perform full‑text search Java operations with ease. This tutorial walks you through every step—from extracting PDF text to adding data to index and searching indexed documents.

## Quick Answers
- **What is the main purpose?** To create a searchable document index using GroupDocs.Search for Java.  
- **Which library version?** GroupDocs.Search 25.4 (or the latest release).  
- **Do I need a license?** A free trial works for development; a full license is required for production.  
- **Can I index PDFs?** Yes—extract pdf text and add it to the index.  
- **How do I run a search?** Use the `index.search(query)` method after adding data.

## What is a Document Index?
A document index is a structured collection of searchable terms extracted from your files. By creating a document index, you enable rapid full‑text searches across large repositories, dramatically improving retrieval speed and accuracy.

## Why Use GroupDocs.Search for Java?
- **Robust extraction** – Handles PDFs, Word, Excel, and more.  
- **Easy serialization** – Store extracted data as byte arrays for later reuse.  
- **Scalable indexing** – Efficiently index millions of documents.  
- **Powerful query language** – Supports complex full‑text search Java queries.

## Prerequisites
- **GroupDocs.Search for Java** (Version 25.4 or newer).  
- **Java Development Kit (JDK)** compatible with your GroupDocs version.  
- An IDE such as IntelliJ IDEA or Eclipse.  
- Maven for dependency management.

## Setting Up GroupDocs.Search for Java
First, add the library to your project.

**Maven Setup**  
Include the following in your `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<repositories>
    <repository>
        <id>repository.groupdocs.com</id>
        <name>GroupDocs Repository</name>
        <url>https://releases.groupdocs.com/search/java/</url>
    </repository>
</repositories>

<dependencies>
    <dependency>
        <groupId>com.groupdocs</groupId>
        <artifactId>groupdocs-search</artifactId>
        <version>25.4</version>
    </dependency>
</dependencies>
```

**Direct Download**  
Alternatively, download the latest version from [GroupDocs.Search for Java releases](https://releases.groupdocs.com/search/java/).

### License Acquisition
- **Free Trial** – Test all features with a temporary license.  
- **Purchase** – Get full access and priority support.

## Step‑by‑Step Implementation

### How to extract text from PDFs (and other documents)
Extracting raw or formatted text is the first step toward creating a document index.

```java
String documentPath = "YOUR_DOCUMENT_DIRECTORY/Lorem ipsum.pdf";
Extractor extractor = new Extractor();
Document document = Document.createFromFile(documentPath);
```

```java
ExtractionOptions extractionOptions = new ExtractionOptions();
extractionOptions.setUseRawTextExtraction(false); // Extract with formatting
ExtractedData extractedData = extractor.extract(document, extractionOptions);
```

> **Tip:** Set `setUseRawTextExtraction(true)` if you need plain text without formatting.

### How to serialize extracted data
Serialization lets you store the extracted data for later indexing.

```java
ByteArrayOutputStream outputStream = new ByteArrayOutputStream();
extractedData.serialize(outputStream);
byte[] serializedArray = outputStream.toByteArray();
```

### How to deserialize extracted data
When you’re ready to build the index, convert the byte array back into an object.

```java
ByteArrayInputStream inputStream = new ByteArrayInputStream(serializedArray);
ExtractedData deserializedData = ExtractedData.deserialize(inputStream);
```

### How to create document index
Now that you have `deserializedData`, you can create the index that will hold searchable terms.

```java
String indexFolder = "YOUR_OUTPUT_DIRECTORY/AdvancedUsage/Indexing/SeparateDataExtraction";
com.groupdocs.search.Index index = new com.groupdocs.search.Index(indexFolder);
```

### How to add data to index and perform a search
Adding data and querying the index completes the **create document index** workflow.

```java
ExtractedData[] dataToIndex = new ExtractedData[] { deserializedData };
index.add(dataToIndex, new IndexingOptions());
```

```java
String query = "ipsum";
SearchResult result = index.search(query);
```

> **Pro tip:** Use `index.search("your query", SearchOptions)` to fine‑tune relevance ranking.

## Common Use Cases
1. **Document Management Systems** – Quickly locate contracts, invoices, or policies.  
2. **Content‑Based Search Engines** – Power internal knowledge bases with full‑text search Java capabilities.  
3. **Data Archiving Solutions** – Index historic records for instant retrieval.

## Performance Considerations
- **Memory Management:** Adjust JVM heap size for large document batches.  
- **Indexing Options:** Disable unnecessary features (e.g., term vectors) to speed up indexing.  
- **Regular Updates:** Keep GroupDocs.Search up‑to‑date to benefit from performance patches.

## Frequently Asked Questions

**Q: How do I handle very large PDF files efficiently?**  
A: Stream the file using `Extractor` and process it in chunks; also increase the JVM heap if needed.

**Q: Can I customize the search query syntax?**  
A: Yes—GroupDocs.Search supports Boolean operators, wildcards, and proximity searches.

**Q: What should I do if serialization fails?**  
A: Verify that all objects implement `Serializable` and catch `IOException` to log details.

**Q: Is it possible to index only specific sections of a document?**  
A: Absolutely—configure `ExtractionOptions` to filter pages or sections before indexing.

**Q: How do I upgrade to a newer GroupDocs.Search version?**  
A: Update the version number in your `pom.xml` and run `mvn clean install`; review the migration guide for breaking changes.

## Resources
- **Documentation:** [GroupDocs Documentation](https://docs.groupdocs.com/search/java/)  
- **API Reference:** [GroupDocs API Reference](https://reference.groupdocs.com/search/java)  
- **Download:** [GroupDocs Downloads](https://releases.groupdocs.com/search/java/)  
- **GitHub:** [GroupDocs GitHub Repository](https://github.com/groupdocs-search/GroupDocs.Search-for-Java)  
- **Free Support:** [GroupDocs Forum](https://forum.groupdocs.com/c/search/10)  
- **Temporary License:** [Obtain a Temporary License](https://purchase.groupdocs.com/temporary-license/)  

---

**Last Updated:** 2025-12-18  
**Tested With:** GroupDocs.Search 25.4 for Java  
**Author:** GroupDocs

Commit message:

Optimize page: content/english/java/advanced-features/groupdocs-search-java-implementation-guide/_index.md - - Updated title and meta description to include primary keyword “extract text from pdf java”. - Revised introduction to place primary keyword in the first 100 words. - Added a new H2 heading that contains the primary keyword. - Expanded explanations, added tips, and clarified why each step matters. - Updated the “Last Updated” date to 2026-02-19 and ensured trust signals are present.

content/english/java/advanced-features/groupdocs-search-java-implementation-guide/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Extract Text from PDF Java: Build Index with GroupDocs.Search"
description: "Learn how to extract text from PDF Java, serialize it, and create a searchable document index using GroupDocs.Search for Java."
date: "2026-02-19"
weight: 1
url: "/java/advanced-features/groupdocs-search-java-implementation-guide/"
keywords:
- GroupDocs.Search for Java
- document indexing in Java
- text extraction with GroupDocs
type: docs
---

# Extract Text from PDF Java: Build Document Index with GroupDocs.Search

In this hands‑on guide you’ll discover **how to extract text from PDF Java** applications and turn that raw content into a fast, full‑text searchable index. Whether you’re building an internal knowledge base, a contract‑search portal, or a custom search engine, the steps below walk you through everything—from pulling text out of PDFs to serializing the data, creating the index, and finally running queries. Let’s dive in and see why GroupDocs.Search makes the whole process smooth and scalable.

## Quick Answers
- **What is the main purpose?** To extract text from PDF Java files and create a searchable document index with GroupDocs.Search.  
- **Which library version?** GroupDocs.Search 25.4 (or the latest release).  
- **Do I need a license?** A free trial works for development; a full license is required for production.  
- **Can I index PDFs?** Yes—extract PDF text and add it to the index.  
- **How do I run a search?** Use the `index.search(query)` method after adding data.

## What is a Document Index?
A document index is a structured collection of searchable terms extracted from your files. By creating a document index, you enable rapid full‑text searches across large repositories, dramatically improving retrieval speed and accuracy.

## Why Use GroupDocs.Search for Java?
- **Robust extraction** – Handles PDFs, Word, Excel, and more.  
- **Easy serialization** – Store extracted data as byte arrays for later reuse.  
- **Scalable indexing** – Efficiently index millions of documents.  
- **Powerful query language** – Supports complex full‑text search Java queries.

## Prerequisites
- **GroupDocs.Search for Java** (Version 25.4 or newer).  
- **Java Development Kit (JDK)** compatible with your GroupDocs version.  
- An IDE such as IntelliJ IDEA or Eclipse.  
- Maven for dependency management.

## Setting Up GroupDocs.Search for Java
First, add the library to your project.

**Maven Setup**  
Include the following in your `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<repositories>
    <repository>
        <id>repository.groupdocs.com</id>
        <name>GroupDocs Repository</name>
        <url>https://releases.groupdocs.com/search/java/</url>
    </repository>
</repositories>

<dependencies>
    <dependency>
        <groupId>com.groupdocs</groupId>
        <artifactId>groupdocs-search</artifactId>
        <version>25.4</version>
    </dependency>
</dependencies>
```

**Direct Download**  
Alternatively, download the latest version from [GroupDocs.Search for Java releases](https://releases.groupdocs.com/search/java/).

### License Acquisition
- **Free Trial** – Test all features with a temporary license.  
- **Purchase** – Get full access and priority support.

## Step‑by‑Step Implementation

### How to extract text from PDFs (and other documents)
Extracting raw or formatted text is the first step toward creating a document index. When you **extract text from PDF Java**, you give the search engine something it can understand.

```java
String documentPath = "YOUR_DOCUMENT_DIRECTORY/Lorem ipsum.pdf";
Extractor extractor = new Extractor();
Document document = Document.createFromFile(documentPath);
```

```java
ExtractionOptions extractionOptions = new ExtractionOptions();
extractionOptions.setUseRawTextExtraction(false); // Extract with formatting
ExtractedData extractedData = extractor.extract(document, extractionOptions);
```

> **Tip:** Set `setUseRawTextExtraction(true)` if you need plain text without formatting.

### How to serialize extracted data
Serialization lets you store the extracted data for later indexing.

```java
ByteArrayOutputStream outputStream = new ByteArrayOutputStream();
extractedData.serialize(outputStream);
byte[] serializedArray = outputStream.toByteArray();
```

### How to deserialize extracted data
When you’re ready to build the index, convert the byte array back into an object.

```java
ByteArrayInputStream inputStream = new ByteArrayInputStream(serializedArray);
ExtractedData deserializedData = ExtractedData.deserialize(inputStream);
```

### How to create document index
Now that you have `deserializedData`, you can create the index that will hold searchable terms.

```java
String indexFolder = "YOUR_OUTPUT_DIRECTORY/AdvancedUsage/Indexing/SeparateDataExtraction";
com.groupdocs.search.Index index = new com.groupdocs.search.Index(indexFolder);
```

### How to add data to index and perform a search
Adding data and querying the index completes the **extract text from PDF Java** workflow.

```java
ExtractedData[] dataToIndex = new ExtractedData[] { deserializedData };
index.add(dataToIndex, new IndexingOptions());
```

```java
String query = "ipsum";
SearchResult result = index.search(query);
```

> **Pro tip:** Use `index.search("your query", SearchOptions)` to fine‑tune relevance ranking.

## Common Use Cases
1. **Document Management Systems** – Quickly locate contracts, invoices, or policies.  
2. **Content‑Based Search Engines** – Power internal knowledge bases with full‑text search Java capabilities.  
3. **Data Archiving Solutions** – Index historic records for instant retrieval.

## Performance Considerations
- **Memory Management:** Adjust JVM heap size for large document batches.  
- **Indexing Options:** Disable unnecessary features (e.g., term vectors) to speed up indexing.  
- **Regular Updates:** Keep GroupDocs.Search up‑to‑date to benefit from performance patches.

## Frequently Asked Questions

**Q: How do I handle very large PDF files efficiently?**  
A: Stream the file using `Extractor` and process it in chunks; also increase the JVM heap if needed.

**Q: Can I customize the search query syntax?**  
A: Yes—GroupDocs.Search supports Boolean operators, wildcards, and proximity searches.

**Q: What should I do if serialization fails?**  
A: Verify that all objects implement `Serializable` and catch `IOException` to log details.

**Q: Is it possible to index only specific sections of a document?**  
A: Absolutely—configure `ExtractionOptions` to filter pages or sections before indexing.

**Q: How do I upgrade to a newer GroupDocs.Search version?**  
A: Update the version number in your `pom.xml` and run `mvn clean install`; review the migration guide for breaking changes.

## Resources
- **Documentation:** [GroupDocs Documentation](https://docs.groupdocs.com/search/java/)  
- **API Reference:** [GroupDocs API Reference](https://reference.groupdocs.com/search/java)  
- **Download:** [GroupDocs Downloads](https://releases.groupdocs.com/search/java/)  
- **GitHub:** [GroupDocs GitHub Repository](https://github.com/groupdocs-search/GroupDocs.Search-for-Java)  
- **Free Support:** [GroupDocs Forum](https://forum.groupdocs.com/c/search/10)  
- **Temporary License:** [Obtain a Temporary License](https://purchase.groupdocs.com/temporary-license/)  

---

**Last Updated:** 2026-02-19  
**Tested With:** GroupDocs.Search 25.4 for Java  
**Author:** GroupDocs
